there are four main factors that go into
wildlife photography and the two most
important ones have nothing to do with
gear the first is time hours and hours
spent in the field they turn into weeks
months total time this time gives you
experience let you learn animal
behaviors unless you find locations
where the animals actually are
understand how the different seasons
work how the tides change the behavior
of water birds for example you'll be
watching the phases of the Moon and the
weather and the rain time is the most
important factor and the great wildlife
photographers they might have great gear
but the biggest factor is they put in a
lot of time the second most important
factor is distance getting closer and
closer and closer to your subject
experience helps you get closer without
disturbing them things like camouflage
lets me get maybe 25 percent closer the
third most important factor are lenses
and you go from 400 millimeters to 500
millimeters you're going to go from
spending $1,300 to six or $10,000 I get
about the same extra reach out of some
camo you can spend a whole lot on a lens
and big prime lenses like this one are
real real expensive they will make a
difference but getting closer is always
the better option because the big lens
won't overcome atmospheric conditions
humidity in the air the further you are
the less sharp you're going to get no
matter what kind of glass you have but
you can get close even at 70 to 300 lens
will produce great results the last
factor here is the camera body and
that's what we're talking about today
because I have the brand-new canon 5d SR
with 50 megapixels and no anti-aliasing
filter so it should be the very best
wildlife camera and existence nothing
else has so many megapixels even in the
medium format world you can get more
megapixels but you can't get big
telephoto lenses this should be the very
best camera in the world but for most of
us it's not because there are other
factors - you start to look at the
camera body it's not all about
megapixels you have to stop talk about
the focusing system because the greatest
wildlife shots aren't
who are standing still with their
animals living moving things like birds
in flight this camera has a good
focusing system but that in the 70 mark
- or the 1dx they're both better and
both those cameras have a much higher
frame rate shooting at 10 frames a
second with the 70 mark - versus only 5
frames a second on this so you get twice
as many shots when a bird is coming
towards you the more shots you get the
better your odds are that one's going to
be perfectly sharp and have the wings in
just the right position so that they're
not casting a shadow on the bird's face
having twice as many frames will make a
huge difference the buffer on this is
also pretty weak - running out of Raw
shots and 12 or 13 frames whereas the 5d
Mark 3 the previous generation of this I
used to get about 33 frames before I ran
out of buffer and when a bird is coming
towards you you need to be shooting for
five or six seconds so it gets to be
really difficult to manage those frames
you start forcing yourself to wait until
the bird gets closer and closer and
closer before you start hitting that
shutter so the 5d SR isn't the best for
birds in flight is it the best for still
subjects slower moving animals like
lions on a safari or small perch -
songbirds
well the pixels are pretty amazing but
you actually get more pixel density with
a Canon t6i it's got 24 megapixels
whereas if you put a 1.6 crop on this we
end up with right about 20 megapixels
it's pretty close to the 70 mark - as
far as detail goes in those situations
where you have to crop now ideally you
get yourself a big 500 millimeter lens
and you fill the frame with your subject
but realistically that's pretty rare
especially with the animals that most of
us are shooting because most of us
aren't shooting giraffes and elephants
and lions most of us are shooting things
like songbirds or Osprey and they don't
let you get that close songbirds they're
so small that the only way you can fill
the frame is if you put about 25
millimetres of extension tube on this
and that puts you about like four feet
away from the songbirds even with a huge
lens if you're going to get four feet
from a songbird and have it not freak
out you're hiding in a blind
you're masking your scent you're staying
there for hours and hours and hours
you're probably also putting down food
may be using calls it's not easy you
have to be really really committed if
you're going to fill the frame on a
full-frame camera so most people will
probably get better results or at least
adds good results by using an aps-c body
like this t6i and you'll have over three
thousand dollars extra money in your
pocket because this is thirty nine
hundred bucks and this is seven hundred
and fifty bucks so you spend that three
thousand dollars you could get an
awesome lens this lens here the four
hundred millimeter at five six I got a
use for about a thousand bucks you could
also spend some of that money on a nice
trip go down to the Everglades go out to
Alaska and get yourself closer to more
amazing wildlife so is the 5d SR the
best way to spend your wildlife
photography budget your shooting still
subjects and you know you can get that
close if you've put those years in
mastered the animal behavior you know
exactly how to hide and fill the frame
then it simply can't be beat the
resolution is unbelievable it's
astounding the dynamic range allows us
to recover shadows that would otherwise
be lost when a bird is flying across an
overcast sky or to pull out detail in
the dark feathers of an otherwise bright
bird something like an osprey it's
amazing you don't let me say otherwise
but it's not the best for birds in
flight and if your budget is something
under like 15 or 20 K you're probably
better off putting extra money and the
the lens and getting something like this
t6i or maybe better yet used Canon 7d
because those crop bodies pull out more
detail you do feel like checking out the
5d sr we have two other reviews covering
landscapes and in studio portrait work
it's really really amazing in both of
those scenarios but for a wildlife it
might not be for everybody Thanks give
us a subscribe and a like share it with
your friends and I hope this helps have
any questions ask in the comments
low